# German Traffic Signal Recognition

**Authors**:

Sidhartha S Mondal

Bharat Sharma

Prithu Bradhwaj

Chirag Bhatia

## Note : "Data set are not provided in the repo please download it from the following Link"
Dataset Link : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/meowmeowmeowmeowmeow/gtsrb-german-traffic-sign

## Abstract

In the context of autonomous vehicles, accurate traffic sign recognition
is crucial for safe navigation. This project presents custom
Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and YOLO models for multi-class
traffic sign classification and detection using the GTSRB dataset. The
CNN model categorizes cropped sign images, while YOLOv5 and YOLOv8
detect signs in full road scenes. Models are optimized through transfer
learning, augmentation, and regularization. Rigorous evaluation shows
strong performance, with precision and recall exceeding 90% for
classification and high mean average precision for detection. The
optimized models provide reliable recognition in challenging real-world
conditions, enhancing automated navigation.

## Introduction

Reliable detection of traffic signs is vital for the safety of
autonomous vehicles. This project focuses on developing deep learning
models, including custom CNNs and YOLO architectures, for multi-class
traffic sign classification and detection. The models are trained on
real-world images of German traffic signs and address challenges such as
distance, perspective, and lighting conditions. The evaluation
demonstrates robust performance, with classification achieving over 90%
precision and recall, and detection showing high mean average precision.
The models generalize well and hold promise for enhancing autonomous
driving systems.

